docs: switch K8s tutorial charms to rock version of demo server (#2649)
canonical/operator: docs/tutorial/from-zero-to-hero-write-your-first-kubernetes-charm/make-your-charm-configurable.md

```

In the `__init__` function, add attributes for the workload container and the name of the application service in the workload container:

```python
# See 'containers' in charmcraft.yaml.
self.container = self.unit.get_container("demo-server")
self.pebble_service_name = "fastapi"
```

As we saw in the previous chapter, the `fastapi` service exposes the app on port 8000. To be able to configure the port, our charm needs to add a Pebble layer that overrides the definition of the `fastapi` service.

Create a method that constructs the Pebble layer:

```python
def _get_pebble_layer(self, port: int) -> ops.pebble.Layer:
    """Pebble layer for the FastAPI demo services."""
    cmd = f"/bin/uvicorn api_demo_server.app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port {port}"
    service: ops.pebble.ServiceDict = {
        "override": "merge",
        "command": cmd,
    }
    layer: ops.pebble.LayerDict = {
        "summary": "FastAPI demo service",
        "description": "pebble config layer for FastAPI demo server",
        "services": {self.pebble_service_name: service},
    }
    return ops.pebble.Layer(layer)
```

> This method defines a service with `override` set to `merge`, which means that unspecified properties should match the existing service definition.

Reviewer: Just to confirm I understand this correctly: does `unspecified properties` mean properties from `ops.pebble.ServiceDict` that we don't define in `service` ?

Author: That's what I mean, yeah. Do you think there's a better way to say it?

Reviewer: Thanks for confirming. I think the current way is okay, I'm happy with it.

This is what I had in mind, but didn't think it is better:

```suggestion
This method defines a service with `override` set to `merge`, which means that unspecified properties should inherit from the existing service definition.
```

Since `match` (to me) would indicate that the properties are defined, and contradict `unspecified properties`.

Author: Recording internal discussion: We decided to go with "unspecified properties should be copied from the existing service definition".

```

In the `__init__` function, add attributes for the workload container and the name of the application service in the workload container:

```python
# See 'containers' in charmcraft.yaml.
self.container = self.unit.get_container("demo-server")
self.pebble_service_name = "fastapi"
```

As we saw in the previous chapter, the `fastapi` service exposes the app on port 8000. To be able to configure the port, our charm needs to add a Pebble layer that overrides the definition of the `fastapi` service.

Create a method that constructs the Pebble layer:

```python
def _get_pebble_layer(self, port: int) -> ops.pebble.Layer:
    """Pebble layer for the FastAPI demo services."""
    command = " ".join(
        [
            "/bin/uvicorn",
            "api_demo_server.app:app",
            "--host 0.0.0.0",
            f"--port {port}",
        ]
    )
    pebble_layer: ops.pebble.LayerDict = {
        "summary": "FastAPI demo service",
        "description": "pebble config layer for FastAPI demo server",
        "services": {
            self.pebble_service_name: {
                "override": "merge",
                "command": command,
            }
        },
    }

>     return ops.pebble.Layer(pebble_layer)

Reviewer 2: How about expressing this less verbosely?
```py
    command = f"/bin/uvicorn api_demo_server.app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port {port}"
    layer: ops.pebble.LayerDict = {
        "summary": "FastAPI demo service",
        "description": "pebble config layer for FastAPI demo server",
        "services": {self.pebble_service_name: {"override": "merge", "command": command}},
    }
    return ops.pebble.Layer(layer)
```
The longest line here is 90 characters, which is fine for code, but longer than the 80 visible character limit we get in the docs. So I guess we actually want:
```py
    cmd = f"/bin/uvicorn api_demo_server.app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port {port}"
    services = {self.pebble_service_name: {"override": "merge", "command": cmd}}
    layer: ops.pebble.LayerDict = {
        "summary": "FastAPI demo service",
        "description": "pebble config layer for FastAPI demo server",
        "services": services,
    }
    return ops.pebble.Layer(layer)
```
Though maybe this makes the type checker angry since we don't define the whole dict in-line? I haven't checked, sorry. We could tidy that up by using a shorter attribute name, for example:
```py
    cmd = f"/bin/uvicorn api_demo_server.app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port {port}"
    layer: ops.pebble.LayerDict = {
        "summary": "FastAPI demo service",
        "description": "pebble config layer for FastAPI demo server",
        "services": {self.service: {"override": "merge", "command": cmd}},
    }
    return ops.pebble.Layer(layer)
```

Author: I think it's best to apply this approach to the k8s-3 version that also sets the service environment, then backport to the k8s-2 charm. But I get what you're going for - I'll try this, thanks

Author: I've switched to this, which I find nicely readable:

```python
    cmd = f"/bin/uvicorn api_demo_server.app:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port {port}"
    service: ops.pebble.ServiceDict = {
        "override": "merge",
        "command": cmd,
        "environment": env,
    }
    layer: ops.pebble.LayerDict = {
        "summary": "FastAPI demo service",
        "description": "pebble config layer for FastAPI demo server",
        "services": {self.pebble_service_name: service},
    }
    return ops.pebble.Layer(layer)
```

    self.unit.status = ops.ActiveStatus()
```

> When the config is loaded as part of constructing the Pebble layer, if the config is invalid (in our case, if the port is set to 22), then a `ValueError` will be raised. The `_replan_workload` method handles that by logging the error and setting the status of the unit to blocked, letting the Juju user know that they need to take action.

Reviewer: I can see that the config is loaded before we construct the Pebble layer.

```
config = self.load_config(FastAPIConfig)

...

self.container.add_layer(
    "fastapi_demo", self._get_pebble_layer(config.server_port), combine=True
)
```
Should we remove the `as part of constructing the Pebble layer` in the first sentence ?

Author: Great point, thanks. I think that paragraph is very redundant with the code. I'd like to simplify it to:

> If the loaded config is invalid (in our case, if the port is set to 22), we set the status of the unit to blocked. This lets the Juju user know that they need to take action.

Reviewer: The new paragraph looks great to me. Thanks!

Since we added a new feature to configure `server-port` and use it in the Pebble layer dynamically, we should write tests for the feature.

First, in `tests/unit/test_charm.py`, find the `expected_plan = ` line then add a line that sets `override` for the `fastapi` service:

```python
# Expected plan after Pebble ready with default config.
expected_plan = ops.pebble.Plan(ROCK_LAYER.to_dict())
expected_plan.services["fastapi"].override = "merge"
```

This is needed because the charm's `_get_pebble_layer` method sets `override` to `merge` in the layer that it constructs.

> Next, we'll add a test that sets the port in the input state and asserts that the port is used in the service's command in the container layer:

Reviewer: I know `container layer` is from the previous version of the tutorial. I assume `container layer` refers to `testing.Container`. I wonder if we should use `Pebble layer` instead, because that is what we want to test. Or would that be too confusing 🤔

Author: I totally agree. This is the only instance of the term "container layer" in our whole docs. I'll change to "Pebble layer".
